1.What is data independence? List the different types of data independence
Data independence: 
Data independence is one of the advantages of DBMS. Data independence means, application 
programs doesn’t depend on “how the data is structured and stored in the database”. This feature 
allows the programs to change database schema without effecting the application programs.
There are two primary types of data independence:
1. Logical Data Independence:
2. Physical Data Independence:

2.List any 4 advantages of Database Systems.
1. Controlled data redundancy
2. Efficient Data Access
3. Data independence
4. Data integrity
5. Concurrency Control and Crash Recovery:
6. Security

3. List any 4 Database applications.
1. Railway Reservation System
2.Library Management System
3. Banking
4. Education Sector
5. Online Shopping

4. Differentiate between Physical & Logical data independence.
DBMS 2-MARKS
Physical Data Independence Logical Data Independence
It mainly concern about how the data is 
stored into the system.
It mainly concerned about the structure or the 
changing data definition.
It is easy to retrieve.
It is difficult to retrieve because the data is 
mainly dependent on the logical structure of 
data.
Any change at the physical level, does not 
require to change at the application level.
The change in the logical level requires a 
change at the application level.
It is concerned with the internal schema. It is concerned with the conceptual schema.
Example: Change in compression 
techniques, Hashing algorithms and storage 
devices etc.
Example: Add/Modify or Delete a new 
attribute.


5. Define database schema and database instance.
Database Schema
 Definition: The database schema is the blueprint or structure of a database. It 
defines how data is organized and how the relationships among data are associated. 
It includes definitions of tables, fields, relationships, views, indexes, and other 
elements.
 Example: In a university database, the schema might include tables for students, 
courses, and enrollments, along with the relationships between these tables.
Database Instance
 Definition: A database instance refers to the actual data stored in the database at a 
particular moment in time. It is a snapshot of the database at a specific point.
 Example: Continuing with the university database example, a database instance 
would include the actual records of students, courses, and enrollments at a given 
time.
DBMS 2-MARKS
                          UNIT-2
1. What is the difference between PRIMARY KEY & UNIQUE constraint?
Parameters PRIMARY KEY UNIQUE KEY
Basic
Used to serve as a unique 
identifier for each row in a 
table.
Uniquely determines a row 
that isn’t the primary key.
NULL value acceptance Cannot accept NULL values. Can accept NULL values.
Number of keys that can 
be defined in the table Only one primary key More than one unique key
Modification
We cannot change or delete 
values stored in primary 
keys.
We can change unique key 
values.
Uses
The primary Key is used for 
indicating the rows 
uniquely.
The Unique Key is used for 
preventing duplicate 
entries.
2. Differentiate between TRUNCATE TABLE & DROP TABLE commands.
S.NO DROP TRUNCATE
1.
The DROP command is used to remove 
the table definition and its contents.
The TRUNCATE command is used to 
delete all the rows from the table.
2.
DROP is a DDL (Data Definition 
Language) command.
TRUNCATE is also a DDL (Data Definition 
Language) command.
3.
In the DROP command, integrity 
constraints will be removed.
In the TRUNCATE command, integrity 
constraints will not be removed.
DBMS 2-MARKS
3.What is Degree of Relationship set in ER model?
In the Entity-Relationship (ER) model, the degree of a relationship set refers to the number 
of entity sets that participate in a relationship. It essentially indicates how many entities are 
involved in a particular relationship.
4.Write the syntax for creating the table from an existing table?
Syntax:
CREATE TABLE new_table_name AS
SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM existing_table_name
WHERE <condition>;
Example:
CREATE TABLE top_students AS
SELECT rollno, name, age, bname, perc
FROM student
WHERE perc > 75;
5. Consider the table R(A,B,C). Write an SQL command to display the records 
of table R, where C value is not equal to NULL.
SELECT * 
FROM R
WHERE C IS NOT NULL
